>>GEORGIA SHAKTI-HILL: Hello,
I'm Georgia Shakti-Hill.
And I am so delighted to welcome
you to "Living In Balance."
We are going to have a lovely
woman from the east, who
has brought the wisdom of
Chinese, all from zen touch
to tai chi to qi gong.
We'll speak of feng shui.
And we will even
trace our meridians.
So do come join us on
"The Rhythms of the Tao."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
As I said, we have
a lovely guest
with us today, Lydia Wong.
And I'm so pleased to have you.
Welcome.
>>LYDIA WONG: Thank you so much.
>>GEORGIA: I enjoyed
your work so much.
You have tapes and
CD's and just videos.
You have a book.
And we're calling this
"The Rhythms of the Tao"
because that's the name
of your book and your CD.
>>LYDIA: That's right.
>>GEORGIA: You come from
Singapore by way of London.
>>LYDIA: That's right.
>>GEORGIA: And you
have a story that
has brought you to
this marvelous way
that you're sharing with us.
And you have put everything
together so that you can really
explain to us what
is this, the Taoism
and the Chinese philosophy and
how it works with our bodies.
>>LYDIA: Well, I was
born in the east.
So when I came to live in
London, change of diet,
change of weather,
I became very sick.
And I had to go back to my roots
to find ways of healing myself.
And when I read about
the Tao and the rhythms
of the Tao, which
is spontaneity,
wu wei, which is effortless
action or non-action,
and natural simplicity,
it just touched my heart.
And I was able to bring a lot
of different healing methods
from the east and west.
And--
>>GEORGIA: So it was after you
were in London that you had
to go to your roots--
>>LYDIA: That's right.
>>GEORGIA: --and understand.
>>LYDIA: That's right because
I wanted to be very Western
and do the aerobic
and go to the gym.
>>GEORGIA: Well, what
I like about this
is it's as if you have really
connected with who you are.
And you're able to
share that with us.
And you start-- your tape
starts with an understanding
of what is the Tao.
>>LYDIA: The Tao is
just very simplistically
following the way of nature,
following the way of harmony.
And everyone's
harmony is different.
So I had to go back to
my roots to find out
what my harmony was.
>>GEORGIA: And
what I find with--
what I had been explained that
the Tao is like your path.
And so it's like your own flow.
>>LYDIA: That's right.
If you saw the
calligraphy of the Tao,
it looked like a chief's head
with feathers in his head.
And he looked as if he was
sitting on a boat traveling
Taon the river.
>>GEORGIA: OK, and then you
talk right away about chi
because chi is very important
to the whole concept
of the Eastern philosophy.
>>LYDIA: Right, so chi
is like a flow of energy.
And our bodies has
pathways called meridians.
And they're like rivers
where the chi flows.
And this is where our energy
transportation goes through.
So when we get stressed
or if we eat unhealthily,
the chi gets blocked.
And we need to find ways
to open this flow again.
>>GEORGIA: Well,
one of my friends
was just recently
diagnosed with arthritis.
And I just was worrying about
her and thinking about it.
And then I just got so clear.
I just told her--
I said, your chi is blocked.
>>LYDIA: That's right.
>>GEORGIA: And it was just
like, we both know this.
And it's as if there was--
and she does Tai Chi.
But she hadn't been doing
it now for a few years.
And so she had really
not been balancing
as far as her exercise
and her approach to life.
You know how we do that.
And our body pays because
the chi has to flow.
>>LYDIA: There's two ways
of improving our chi.
And one is through breathing.
And the other one
is through food.
So you can pick and
choose which way to go.
>>GEORGIA: Now, this is not--
this is somewhat new
to Western philosophy.
But it's become very in.
People want to
know more about it.
But the whole concept
of chi and the Tao
goes back many, many centuries.
>>LYDIA: Oh,
probably 6,000 years.
>>GEORGIA: Yes, yes,
OK, so it's not new.
But the whole concept
of Chinese medicine
is based on that flow of chi.
>>LYDIA: That's right.
You can do it also through
herbs and acupuncture.
And there's many
modalities available.
>>GEORGIA: Well, I love
the way that you do it.
>>LYDIA: Thank you.
>>GEORGIA: One of the things
that I liked is also you have--
you do a massage
that is called Zen--
>>LYDIA: Touch.
>>GEORGIA: --touch, OK.
And I thought that that
sounded so intriguing.
And we have our beautiful
Christina Phelps Bowman
has once again
volunteered to allow
you to do massage with her.
And what I saw was a lot
of it reminded me of yoga.
But it's with a partner.
So if we can see that tape,
I'd like to have us watch.
And you can explain to
us what you're doing
and what zen touch is about.
Here we are.
>>LYDIA: OK, I've-- what I've
done is I've incorporated
shiatsu, Thai massage,
and healing touch.
So that everybody
is able to do this.
You don't have to
be a therapist.
The reason why I
call it zen touch
is because you're
working from your center.
And you're not thinking
about doing it perfect.
You're just listening
to your breathing
and connecting with the person
that you're working with.
And if you notice,
all the work comes
from the center of your body.
So I'm quite little.
And I can work with
very large people.
>>GEORGIA: And you have.
Yes, I know that--
I think it was --
>>LYDIA: Now, this
one is very, very,
very-- it opens the
sides of the body.
And you know the
size of the bodies
is where you get the
gallbladder meridian.
>>GEORGIA: So actually,
you're adding a pressure to--
what she could do--
you're pushing beyond that?
>>LYDIA: Yes, I'm--
>>GEORGIA: And you're
pushing her body beyond it.
>>LYDIA: --lifting her
elbows up and slightly back.
>>GEORGIA: And you're
creating space.
And that's what we need to do--
>>LYDIA: Creating space.
>>GEORGIA: --in order
to let that chi flow.
>>LYDIA: Right, we're
moving the clutter.
>>GEORGIA: You're twisting.
>>LYDIA: That's right,
twisting very gently.
>>GEORGIA: Removing the clutter.
>>LYDIA: This is like
feng shui for the body.
>>GEORGIA: Yes, it is.
>>LYDIA: All the exercises that
I teach, that's how I apply it.
It's like feng
shui for the body.
>>GEORGIA: Yes,
now, there's another
that you want to do here.
And this is always so important.
And as you said, it's
shiatsu and it's yoga.
And it's touch.
But this is where one can't
press beyond a certain point
if you're doing it by yourself.
>>LYDIA: That's right.
>>GEORGIA: But if you're
doing it with a partner.
>>LYDIA: You have to listen
with your fingertips almost.
It's like-- it's
your stretching--
if you overstretch, you
could hurt the person.
So you have to just be
very still in order to tap
into where they're coming from.
>>GEORGIA: Well,
in your book, you
said that much of what your
therapy is is intuitive.
And so you are listening to--
>>LYDIA: Because
everyone is different.
>>GEORGIA: --her body.
>>LYDIA: And the
limitations are different.
>>GEORGIA: And so here--
>>LYDIA: And the body speaks
to you because if she cannot
stretch anymore, it would--
you would feel this stop.
>>GEORGIA: Yes, so that-- and
what-- and there are many other
exercises that you do
with that, or techniques.
But I ask you to do
some for us that you
couldn't do by yourself.
>>LYDIA: Yes, so this is
a full body treatment.
>>GEORGIA: But I
also ask you if you
would show us some of the
things we could do by ourselves.
So now, you said we're
even going to play
with our feet a little bit.
>>LYDIA: That's right.
>>GEORGIA: Because
we do have to take
care of all parts of
our body, don't we?
>>LYDIA: That's right.
>>GEORGIA: OK.
>>LYDIA: So let's work on
the meridians in the hands.
And what you could do is
to rub your hands together.
We mustn't forget that.
Shake it off.
And you can start by
just knocking very gently
all the way up to the shoulders
and then flip the hands over
and knock down.
It's very nice to--
>>GEORGIA: And what does--
>>LYDIA: --energize.
>>GEORGIA: That gets
the circulation going.
>>LYDIA: That's right.
>>GEORGIA: OK, so we're
just tapping lightly.
>>LYDIA: That's right.
Very lightly tapping
all the way down.
>>GEORGIA: And whatever
we do to one side,
we always have to do to
the other side, don't we?
>>LYDIA: That's right.
OK, so--
>>GEORGIA: I know there are
certain rules in all of it.
>>LYDIA: That's right.
And then after this, you
can just very lightly pluck.
This is very delicious.
>>GEORGIA: So that's
another technique.
>>LYDIA: And then you finish by
just massaging off the fingers.
And this breaks
up the stagnation.
Then we do the other side.
And then, like in
the 14 meridians,
if you knew there was a blockage
in let's say your lungs,
you would start here
using all four fingers
and really penetrate deeply.
>>GEORGIA: OK, so--
>>LYDIA: And then
follow down the line
all the way off the thumb.
>>GEORGIA: Well, that's
why I liked your tape
on energizing your meridians.
It teaches us where
our meridians are.
And I've heard about meridians.
But-- and I've
seen the drawings.
But until such time
as you actually
see it and start lining
them out on your own body,
you don't really get it.
>>LYDIA: That's right.
So once you've done
that, it gets very hot.
You can just massage.
>>GEORGIA: That
was the long one.
So if you had a
problem with the lungs,
then that's what you
would want to do.
It's a deep massage.
>>LYDIA: Right, so if you had
a large intestine problem,
you would start from
the index finger
and then work yourself
up because that's
the flow of the large intestine.
>>GEORGIA: And we're just
pressing a little bit.
But we're going
along a certain line.
>>LYDIA: Yes, it's quite deep.
>>GEORGIA: Oh, OK.
Oh yeah--
>>LYDIA: It's quite deep.
>>GEORGIA: That does
remind me of shiatsu.
>>LYDIA: Yes, so--
>>GEORGIA: OK, so
you're pushing.
You're really getting into that.
>>LYDIA: Uh-huh, pushing.
And you can use a cushion to
rest your arm if you get tired.
And the large intestine
would end at the side
the corner of the
nose right here.
>>GEORGIA: Right there, OK.
>>LYDIA: And you
press it quite deeply.
It's very painful.
>>GEORGIA: OK, it should hurt.
>>LYDIA: And for stomach,
you could start right here.
There's an indentation.
And you can lightly tap it.
And then you can
work your way down.
This is also very
good for wrinkles.
>>GEORGIA: Oh OK.
>>LYDIA: And you
go around the face.
Right here you can just
press all the way down,
skip the eyes.
>>GEORGIA: And
that's the stomach.
>>LYDIA: And just come
back down here and just
work around the collarbone.
And then, of course, the
stomach meridian goes down
into the belly button and out.
And follow the
outside of your legs.
So here you can
continue pressing.
>>GEORGIA: Pressing again, OK.
>>LYDIA: Again, you have to
use quite a firm pressure.
>>GEORGIA: OK, real hard.
OK.
>>LYDIA: That's it.
And then you follow the
outside of your shins.
And you go all the way
down to your second toes.
>>GEORGIA: OK, and now
we have just one minute
until we go to break.
>>LYDIA: The feet--
>>GEORGIA: So what can
we do with our feet?
>>LYDIA: This is very grounding.
So what you do is you
stretch your thumbs
in different directions.
And then you come to the
middle and you pinch it.
>>GEORGIA: Oh OK--
>>LYDIA: You do it
like three times.
And it helps to root
you into the Earth.
>>GEORGIA: OK, so
you push apart.
And then you pinch.
>>LYDIA: And this
is also very good
to break up congestion for pain.
>>GEORGIA: OK, and the
other foot in the end.
>>LYDIA: And the other foot, OK.
>>GEORGIA: So this
is good for us.
>>LYDIA: Stretch and pinch.
>>GEORGIA: OK, so we
stretch and then we pinch.
And it's grounding,
and it's good for pain.
>>LYDIA: Yeah, so let's say
if you had a wrist stagnation,
you would stretch it,
stretch it, and pinch.
>>GEORGIA: Stretch,
stretch, pinch.
Excellent.
OK, we still have to talk about
feng shui, tai chi, meridians.
And we're going to play.
So if you will stay
tune, we'll be right back
with more of "The
Rhythms of the Tao."
And if you are just joining
us, I'm George Shakti-Hill.
And my guest today
is Lydia Wang.
And we are talking about
"The Rhythms of the Tao."
One thing that's become very
popular in the United States
is feng shui.
Feng shui--
>>LYDIA: Yes, feng
shui and Mandarin.
In Cantonese, it's feng shui.
So the sound is always different
in a different dialect.
>>GEORGIA: Yes,
now with feng shui,
that is actually the placement
of furniture in your home
in order to allow
the flow of chi.
>>LYDIA: Yes, it's
also to do with colors.
It's also to do with
the Earth's energy.
So perhaps, before you
started clearing your house,
you'd like to check to see
the Earth's energies positive.
>>GEORGIA: Yes, and you
are a feng shui consultant.
And you have credentials.
>>LYDIA: Yes.
>>GEORGIA: You
have studied well.
Now, that is part of the whole
package of the philosophy
that you work with.
>>LYDIA: Yes, well, I found
that when I was helping people
with their bodies, they
would keep coming back
with the same problems.
And it was until I
stepped into their home
that I realized that oh, the
houses need to be cleared too.
>>GEORGIA: Yes, and
you said before you
can have the remedies,
you have to clear.
>>LYDIA: I think it's
a good idea to, but--
>>GEORGIA: Yes, so we have
much that we're going to do.
The first thing that you and
I are going to do together
is we're going to work
with the meridians.
And tell me about what
we're going to be doing.
>>LYDIA: OK, the--
we're going to start
with tracing the yin
and the yang meridian,
which is called the
central meridian.
And the back is called
the governing meridian.
And that helps you to
prevent energy leakage
because sometimes when
we get very drained,
it's because the central
meridian is unzipped.
If you think of it as a
zipper, it gets unzipped.
>>GEORGIA: So we're actually
going to trace meridians.
And I'm going to
try to follow you.
And I've watched your tape.
And I loved it.
And the tape is on
energizing your meridians.
So this would be very good for
people to know their meridians
and to do this little exercise.
>>LYDIA: Absolutely.
>>GEORGIA: And it's
just a couple minutes.
>>LYDIA: Once they
learn the whole routine,
it takes two minutes.
>>GEORGIA: OK, so we're going to
go to this two minute meridian,
balancing and tracing.
>>LYDIA: Yes.
>>GEORGIA: OK, and you
can tell us about it.
So we started with what
is the central meridian.
Oh, we start with the--
>>LYDIA: We always start
with shaking our hands.
And this is the
central meridian.
Then we go to the back, which
is the governing meridian.
And I always like to
start with the spleen.
So spleen is at the
outside of your big toes.
And you trace inside the
legs up to the armpits
and down to the waist.
And this is for digestion,
helping with metabolism.
And this is the hot meridian and
the small intestine meridian.
>>GEORGIA: So there is
a line of flow for--
>>LYDIA: That's right.
>>GEORGIA: --each of the organ.
>>LYDIA: Here comes the bladder.
It's very long.
It goes all the way down the
spine and off the little toes.
And kidney meridian
runs underneath and up
to the collarbone.
>>GEORGIA: And that's a
very important place that--
>>LYDIA: Here comes
circulation sex.
And this is very
important for stress.
This is triple warmer.
OK, you go around the ears
and off the ring finger.
And that helps you to relax.
It helps you to sleep.
It helps you to control stress.
Here comes the gallbladder
meridian, which is even longer.
And it goes all the way
around the sides of your body.
And it comes off
the fourth toes.
>>GEORGIA: And
those are the paths,
the pathways of the meridian.
>>LYDIA: That's right.
And then liver comes
up like the spleen,
but it only ends
underneath the breast.
And here comes the lungs
and large intestine.
>>GEORGIA: And as I
told you, I watched this
and I just loved your tape.
>>LYDIA: And this is
the stomach meridian.
>>GEORGIA: It was the
first time I really knew
where my own meridians were.
>>LYDIA: It's a great
way to unblock your chi.
>>GEORGIA: --to learn,
yeah, uh-huh, yeah.
>>LYDIA: And when you
go to the acupuncturist,
that's what they're
working with.
>>GEORGIA: Sure.
And if you're
having a difficulty
with some part of the
body-- oh, and here we are.
The central again.
We're zipping up.
>>LYDIA: We always finish
up with zipping up,
front and back.
>>GEORGIA: So that's
what we would want to--
if we do that, we really
are taking care of our body.
It's part of-- it could be
part of our daily routine.
And you think it should be?
>>LYDIA: Oh, absolutely,
because you're
uncluttering the meridians.
And again, it's like feng shui.
Unclutter the meridians
by tracing it.
>>GEORGIA: And actually
you said you don't even
have to touch it within
two inches of the body.
>>LYDIA: That's right.
Two, three inches.
So if you're doing a
person that's sick perhaps,
and having some problems
with pain and discomfort,
you can just go off the
body and trace exactly.
And always remember
to shake off.
>>GEORGIA: Yes, OK.
Shake off--
>>LYDIA: Shake off.
>>GEORGIA: --the energies.
We also did some tai chi,
just a wee bit of that.
>>LYDIA: Yeah, just a wee bit.
>>GEORGIA: Now, tai chi--
there are different schools.
There are different styles.
And you do one that's
really just beautiful.
And you combine
tai chi and qi gong
as part of your
whole package, too,
that you're training people in
what you call the chinetics.
And that's also
one of your tapes.
And that's where we do
all these things together.
>>LYDIA: It's a lot easier
to learn than tai chi chuan.
And it's like a series
of solo exercises
that you string together.
>>GEORGIA: So we did that.
And let's take a look at
that, too, just to see.
And you can tell us a little
bit about what we are doing,
shaking off that chi, OK.
>>LYDIA: OK, here we
are, opening to the sky.
That's a beautiful one to
begin and embracing tiger.
This is what it's
called, embracing tiger.
Return to mountain.
So this exercise is
called embrace tiger,
return to mountain.
And I love to do
this as the beginning
because it opens to the sky.
And it embraces the Earth.
And you settle the energy
down before you begin.
Now here we are
holding the chi ball
and just parting
wild horses mane.
That's what it's called.
>>GEORGIA: Each movement
has a beautiful name.
>>LYDIA: Parting
wild horses mane.
You've done this before.
>>GEORGIA: I have done tai chi.
And I love it.
I don't do it every day.
And I want to.
I want to be good.
>>LYDIA: And here comes
the cloud hands, [CHINESE]..
>>GEORGIA: But I loved
your style because it is--
it's lovely.
It's gentle.
And as you said, it's easier
than the strict tai chi chuan.
>>LYDIA: And if you
just have 10 minutes,
it's just beautiful to just
pick one or two solo exercises
and just concentrate on it.
>>GEORGIA: This is our waves.
>>LYDIA: And this is the
waves, flowing with the waves.
It feels like waves.
>>GEORGIA: Yes, and now
what are the benefits
then of the tai chi, these
movements we are doing?
>>LYDIA: It helps you
to calm and slow down.
And it lengthens your breathing.
It helps you to just distress.
>>GEORGIA: And so often
that, as we have found,
is the basis for disease?
>>LYDIA: Yes.
>>GEORGIA: And so that
is a wonderful technique
of relieving stress.
>>LYDIA: I just
love it because it's
like bringing some rituals
into your everyday life.
>>GEORGIA: And ritual
is good because there
is a certain power to ritual too
because of the people that have
been doing it forever and ever.
Now, again, on "The
Rhythms of the Tao,"
you said there are
really like three parts.
And you started
with spontaneity.
>>LYDIA: Tzu ran,
spontaneity, wu wei,
which is like non-action,
which is hard for us
in the Western world to do.
And there's pusu, which
is natural simplicity.
So you can bring
these three rhythms
into your everyday life,
whether it's cooking, cleaning,
looking after the children.
>>GEORGIA: Do it
with spontaneity--
>>LYDIA: That's right.
>>GEORGIA: --with effortless
action and with simplicity.
>>LYDIA: That's right.
>>GEORGIA: And that's
a philosophy, then.
>>LYDIA: It is.
>>GEORGIA: Now, then, back
to your personal story,
you were able then
to heal yourself
as a result of going back to
what was part of your culture.
>>LYDIA: That's right, yes.
>>GEORGIA: And now you
have put this all together.
And you teach other
people how to do this.
>>LYDIA: Yes, I'd
love to empower people
and experience the
same amount of healing
that I did because
I was on medication
for many, many years.
And it just made me
a little off balance.
I put on a lot of weight.
And I was just miserable.
>>GEORGIA: And now you do
this in Key West, Florida.
>>LYDIA: Yes, I live
in Key West, Florida.
>>GEORGIA: So you have chosen
a lovely place on the planet,
have you not?
>>LYDIA: Yes, I have.
And I'm going to have retreats
available in July for people
to come.
>>GEORGIA: Well,
and with the music,
you said, for example,
your one CD, it is drum.
>>LYDIA: Yes, drums,
just all drums.
It's used for--
>>GEORGIA: And what is this?
I love this.
>>LYDIA: --feng
shui space clearing.
So you would put
it on really loud.
And it would help to just stir
up the energy and cleanse it.
And then you would put
on the clear cloud,
which would just harmonize and
balance and soothe the energy.
>>GEORGIA: So you then have
incorporated all of this,
the massage and the
therapeutic self massage,
and the stretching.
So the work that you have done
with the body is, you said,
breath and food are
what will build Chi.
>>LYDIA: That's right.
>>GEORGIA: OK, and so with
that chi, as we build our chi,
then that's how our
immune system is improved.
And what are some
of the benefits?
>>LYDIA: Oh, I love the idea
of rejuvenation and anti-aging
for me.
>>GEORGIA: Anti-aging.
>>LYDIA: Anti-aging.
>>GEORGIA: That is in also.
Is it not?
>>LYDIA: That's right.
>>GEORGIA: Yes, so the
philosophy's then have really
worked to really flow together.
What I liked about your work is
that this is Lydia's approach.
>>LYDIA: This might
not be for everybody.
But if I can just help a small
percentage it would be good.
>>GEORGIA: But you've put
your own personal touch--
>>LYDIA: That's right.
>>GEORGIA: --onto it.
I appreciate that.
And I think you have
served us very well.
The tapes are excellent.
I worked with them.
I enjoy them.
And I learned a lot
about my meridians.
>>LYDIA: Oh, good.
[LAUGHTER]
>>GEORGIA: Which I
knew they were there.
But I just had never
traced them before.
>>LYDIA: It's taken me
five years to learn it.
So you have a
video now to learn.
>>GEORGIA: Thank you, OK.
So if you would like to
be in touch with Lydia,
and we always love to hear
from you, too, stay tuned.
We'll let you know how.
And then we'll have
some parting thoughts.
It is so wonderful
to have the wisdom
from the east brought to us.
And in so many
different ways, it
can impact our
lives so positively.
I love incorporating feng
shui, tai chi, qi gong, and now
zen touch also.
And as we look at this, we
see that there are many ways
that we can learn to live
in balance in mind, body,
and spirit.
What we want to know
is what works for us.
What do we really attune to?
And I absolutely and thoroughly
enjoyed all of the activities
that we did with Lydia Wong.
And I want to thank Christina
Phelps Bowman once again.
And I want to thank
you for being with us.
Until next time, I'm
Georgia Shakti-Hill.
May you be well,
happy, and peaceful.
[MUSIC PLAYING]